ABB ML Project

Business Problem
-There are total of four files in the dataset: train.csv(training set), test.csv(testing set), data_description.txt(description about the dataset
and columns of the dataset) and sample_submission.csv(submission must be made in this format). The columns of the dataset is present in the data
fields. We open the train.csv and we see that there are 81 columns and 1460 entries/rows. SalesPrice is the target/dependent variable which is 
evaluated from the independent variables. We have to build a regression ML model and predict the sales price of the house. We will be using only
the train.csv file. 

Data Preprocessing-1
-We will be doing our project on Google-Colab Notebook, Python 3 Google Compute Engine backend. Our dataset link is provided. We import our 
packages. numpy is to deal with arrays. pandas is to deal with the dataset. matplotlib and seaborn are data visualisation libraries. Then we upload
and read our dataset into our project. 
-Data exploration: We explore and get to know more about the data. dataset.head() reads the first few lines of the dataset. dataset.shape gives 
the number of rows/observations(1460) and columns of the dataset(81). dataset.columns gives us the names of the columns. dataset.info() gives us 
the information about the name of the column, number of non-null values in each column and the datatype of each column. There are three datatypes:
int64, float64 and object. object is for categorical data or in a way are strings. dataset.describe() gives us the stastical summary of the 
non-object columns in the dataset. Stastical summary involve min, max, mean, standard deviation, 25%, 50%, 75% and count(number of non-null values).
We check for the number of numerical columns(38), columns with int64 and float64 as datatypes. Then, we check for categorical columns(43). 
-We check for null values by writing two command and we see there are 6965 null values. We also see the number of null values in each column. Then,
the names and number(19) of all columns which have null values. We also make use of the heatmap to see the null values. Wherever there is a line, it
means it is a null, and through which we can get to know about the number of null values for each column. We calculate the percent of null values 
occuping every column. cols_to_drop checks for the columns which have null values more than 50%. Then, we proceed to drop these columns. We
notice there are 15 columns available only now. 
-Out of the 15 columns, 3 are numerical columns. And, we add each element in every numerical column with their resepective column means, in order 
to make it non-null. Element=Element+Mean of respective column. Now these numerical columns do not have any null values anymore.
-Now, we work with the categorical columns(12) by getting all of them. We add the mode of each column to each value of that categorical column. 
mode is the category which is repeated the most. [0] at the end means mode value is 0 by default.
-At the end, once all the null values have become non-null, we see dataset.isnull().values.any() returns false indicating there are no null 
values present anymore.

Data Preprocessing-2
-We work on plotting the distplot. The skewness tells us to take the values up to two decimals. On observing the distplot, we see that most of the
salesprice is concentrated around the 2 lakhs, and with the help of skewness we can get the probablity distribution. 
-We evaluate the correlation matrix by giving the height and width of the plot, and also giving the grid true in order to keep a grid present. The 
matrix gives the postive or negative correlation of the target variable SalesPrice with all the other variables. 
-We plot the heatmap for the data with the possible height and width. cmap='coolwarm' means the color of the plot. Darker the box present in the 
plot means greater is the positive correlation between the variables.
-high_corr holds the values of the each column with every other column's correlation value. high_corr_features holds the all those columns whose
correlation with SalePrice is greater than 0.5. Then, we can see the heatmap for the high_corr_features values/columns.
-Now, we deal with categorical values. First we encode these columns. get_dummies basically divides each column into smaller variables/columns 
which hold a value. Now, if the row has that smaller's variable value in it, it return true otherwise false. drop_first basically keep the first 
column with all true values. So now the categorical columns are broken into smaller column which hold a true or false value. 
-Splitting the data into the training and testing dataset using train_test_split. y is the target variable and x is the independent variables. 
test_set receives the 20% of the dataset while the 80% goes to the training set. random_state=0 means every time we run this command we get the
same training and testing set. Then, we see the rows and columns of x_train, y_train, x_test and y_test. 
-Now, we perform standard scaling on the data present with the help of StandardScaler. We use fit_transform from this class on the training set
because we have to fit the data into the model and then also transform it. Whereas we use transform on the testing set because we have to only 
transform the values and not to fit into the model to train it. We see the values are now between +3 and -3. The transformation is done based on 
this formula z = (x - u) / s, where u is the mean of the training samples, s is the standard deviation of the training samples, x is the sample
score and z is the new sample score.

Building and Finalizing the Model
-Our first ML model is multiple linear regression which is performed with the help of LinearRegression. Then, second model is Random Forest 
regessor done with the help of RandomForestRegressor. And the third one is XGBoost Regression, done with the help of XGBRFRegressor. All three 
of the models are first used to train x and then are used to predict the y value. r2_score also known as regression score function helps us 
determine which model is the best. At the end we see the RandomForestRegressor is the best way to go.
-LinearRegression fits a linear model with coefficients w = (w1, …, wp) to minimize the residual sum of squares between the observed targets
 in the dataset, and the targets predicted by the linear approximation. They help us reduce the error as much as possible.
-A random forest is a meta estimator that fits a number of classifying decision trees on various sub-samples of the dataset and uses averaging
 to improve the predictive accuracy and control over-fitting.
-XGBoost is normally used to train gradient-boosted decision trees. The XGBoost library allows the models to be trained in a way that 
repurposes and harnesses the computational efficiencies implemented in the library for training random forest models.

HyperParameter Tuning 
-Hyperparameters are those variables which control the training process, whereas parameters help in the decision making process.
-In GridSearchCV, all the parameters values are tried out whereas in RandomizedSearchCV, not all parameter values are tried out, due to which 
RandomizedSearchCV takes lesser time than GridSearchCV. We fill in the parameters along with the test values for the RandomizedSearchCV. We
create an instance of RandomizedSearchCV called random_cv which takes the random forest, parameters, does 50 iterations, performs a 5-fold 
splitting strategy, the computation time for each fold and parameter candidate is displayed, -1 means use all processors and we use the same
training and testing set every time. 
-Then we fit out model along with the testing and training set. random_cv.best_estimator_ tells us the values of Hyperparameters to 
use to get the best performance. random_cv.best_params_ tells only about the values to be used in the param_distribution in order to achieve the
max performance.

Final Model
-We take the values of the parameters and put it in arguments of RandomForestRegressor. Find out the results for all possible models.

Multiple Linear regression - -3.5400367536523465e+21(Bad)
Random Forest regression - 0.8376015978488316(Best)
XGBoost Regression - 0.8114231361056368(Second best)
Therefore, we choose Random Forest regression. After HyperParameter Tuning, we get:
Improved Random Forest regression - 0.8428475362748599

